Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has ruled out a broader
ceasefire in Gaza unless the nearly 240
hostages taken by Hamas are freed the
families of some of those taken uh
captive were in Brussels to ask EU
lawmakers to help secure the release of
their loved
ones aan is just 12 years old the last
time he was seen alive was on the day
Hamas militants broke in into his home
in kibuts near Oz on October 7 he was
driven into Gaza on the back of a
motorcycle this is his aunt ayella she
has a special bond with him because he
was born on her 30th birthday he loves
animals all his pictures is with animals
he sees the
weak I
hope that he gets the strength
thanks to help the weak
there I know that tan is alive I know I
know etan's father Ohad has also not
been seen since the day of the attack in
the chaos of the violence the family
were separated it's believed he's also
being held in Gaza this is just one
family story others are here too they've
come to the European Parliament to ask
for help to get their loved ones
released Yoni asha's wife and daughters
who are 4 and 2 years old are German
citizens is this passport German
passport it's a piece of
paper it has any
value if it's just a piece of
paper why does people need it the
families delivered passionate pleas and
the message was heard they want also the
European Union the European institutions
our countries to be involved in the
negotiations to release them we have to
be part of that European politicians U
members of the commission from the
council that we all have to do our part
also in this process why has Europe not
been doing
that I think that right now is the
Israeli government who is doing this uh
negotiations I don't know but I think
that we should ask to be also part of
this for Ayala every day that passes is
a day too long I can't
even find the world words of what I'm
feeling Ohad is my older brother is I
admire him he's my best
friend I miss
him
andan
[Music]
he's
just small
boy that I can't believe that he's on
these monsters hands we are in a
nightmare but she still has hope it's
help she's asking
for and aler spoke to our correspondent
Rebecca Rus in Jerusalem and I asked her
about reports that talks are underway
involving the potential release of
several hostages in return for a
temporary pause in
fighting well despite that we're hearing
that the talks are ongoing Israel of
course not directly involved in the
talks with Hamas but working through
intermediaries from Qatar and Egypt they
have been instrumental in the hostage
releases that have happened so far
unfortunately we've not seen many and of
course there's hope that there will be
more now this particular deal uh
involves about 10 to 15 people with we
believe that they are said to uh that
they will release uh in return for a 48
to 72-hour ceasefire in hostilities in
order to allow for the for Aid to be
brought into Gaza Strip uh as you say
Israel Contin continues to say that they
have no intention of any ceasefire until
all the hostages have been released but
they are under a lot of pressure uh to
to make sure that some host the hostages
all of the hostages come out alive so I
think if a deal were presented to them
where some hostages were able to come
out they they would consider it despite
uh words to the contrary but at the
moment we all we know is that these
talks we're hearing are ongoing but
getting accurate information about just
where they're at is incredibly difficult
Rebecca the Israeli military says that
tens of thousands are now fleeing from
northern Gaza because Hamas has quote
lost control there what's the latest on
the
offensive
yeah well we're seeing those pretty
extraordinary images of thousands of
people fleeing from the north to the
South yesterday we saw around about
50,000 people making that treacherous
Journey now these uh so-called safe
routes uh are open for several hours
during the day and they have been for a
couple of days now though yesterday was
the largest number that we've seen as I
said about 50,000 up from around 15,000
people the day before now militarily we
know that the military have for a couple
of days now encircled Gaza City and
they're starting to make that push into
the city they've also completely cut off
the north from the south uh and so they
say that Hamas has lost control in the
northern part of the strip they also
this morning have said that they've made
uh Headway and they've in fact taken
over a stronghold in the jabalia refugee
camp a Hamas stronghold I should say uh
so you know they're pushing ahead with
their military aims but these so-called
safe routes these safe corridors have
open for several hours each day and as
you can see people trying to make the
most of them though as we know even when
they get to the South these areas are
not safe and in fact there really is no
safe place for people in
Gaza